# AnsibleFest SF Contributor Summit, AWS Session

Sept. 6, 2017: 3-5pm PDT

* Video / Bluejeans:Â  https://bluejeans.com/2390394613/
* IRC: #ansible-aws

https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ansible-summit-september-2017


* Update BOTMETA to reflect AWS WG structure (reduce willthames being a SPOF for AWS PRs)
* What improvements are needed to the AWS WG docs?
* https://github.com/ansible/community/pull/236
* Triage existing issues list?
* RDS status? See community wiki page (basically, RDS is massive)
  * Goal to start deprecation of existing rds module in 2.5
* break indirect dep of aws/core.py on ec2.py on boto
* Chat more in IRC about PRs, reviews, ideas, but not too much more. But more. Just not too much more.

https://opensource.com/article/17/8/ansible-serverless-applications

Should probably:

* Have a doc about using/recording placebo things
* Add Sloane and Ryan as namespace maintainers?
